README.md, before:

# sxbp ![sxbp](sxbp.png "sxbp")

Experimental generation of 2D spiralling lines based on input binary data.

This is the command-line-interface for [libsaxbospiral](https://github.com/saxbophone/libsaxbospiral).

## Licensing

sxbp, like libsaxbospiral is released under version **3.0** of the **GNU Affero General Public License** (AGPLv3).

A full verbatim of this license may be found in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file in this repository. *You should almost certainly read it*. If for some reason you have not received this file, you can view a copy of the license at [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

Note that as well as being under the same copyleft protections as the GPL License, the AGPL enforces these protections further by **including provision of the software via a network service (such as a website) as one of its definitions of distribution**, hence requiring those who integrate sxbp into their website or other network service to also release the software into which they are integrating sxbp under this same license (AGPLv3).

> ### Note:

> I wholeheartedly don't recommend integrating *this* program into your software, that is what libsaxbospiral is for. You can integrate sxbp anyway if you want, but it's generally not a good idea...

## Usage

Once sxbp is installed, run `sxbp -h` for usage information, or look here:

```
Usage: sxbp [-hvpgrD] [-d <int>] [-l <int>] [-t <int>] [-s <int>] [-f FORMAT] [-i <file>] [-o <file>]
  -h, --help                       show this help and exit
  -v, --version                    show version of program and library, then exit
  -p, --prepare                    prepare a spiral from raw binary data
  -g, --generate                   generate the lengths of a spiral's lines
  -r, --render                     render a spiral to an image
  -D, --disable-perfection         allow unlimited optimisations
  -d, --perfection-threshold=<int> set optimisation threshold
  -l, --line-limit=<int>           plot this many more lines than currently solved
  -t, --total-lines=<int>          total number of lines to plot to
  -s, --save-every=<int>           save to file every this number of lines solved
  -f, --image-format=FORMAT        which image format to render to (pbm/png)
  -i, --input=<file>               input file path
  -o, --output=<file>              output file path
```

## Dependencies

You will need:

- A compiler that can compile ISO C99 code
- [Cmake](https://cmake.org/) - v3.0 or newer
- [libsaxbospiral](https://github.com/saxbophone/libsaxbospiral) - v0.20.x
- [Argtable 2](http://argtable.sourceforge.net/) - must use v2, v1 and v3 will not work

> ### Note:

> These commands are for unix-like systems, without an IDE or other build system besides CMake. If building for a different system, or within an IDE or other environment, consult your IDE/System documentation on how to build CMake projects.

## Recommended Build with optimisation

Add this extra argument to CMake to build the program in release mode (with full optimisation)

```sh
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release .
make
```

## Install Program

Use the `make install` target to install the compiled program to your system's standard location for executables.

```
make install
```

Assuming your PATH is configured correctly, sxbp should now be available to you as the command `sxbp`.

> ### Note:

> This may or may not require admin priveleges. Typically does on GNU/Linux, typically doesn't on Mac OSX *with Homebrew installed* and *probably doesn't* on Microsoft Windows.

## Contributions and Transfer of Copyright

I've yet to create a CLA (Contributor License Agreement), but I will likely be doing so soon and definitely when I start getting external contributions.

This will likely involve aggreeing of transfer of copyright ownership of contributed work to me (Joshua Saxby/@saxbophone), so I can be in the best position to defend copyright claims against me and also allow for dual-licensing should someone find this commercially valuable.

Commit message:

Verify string input data works by amending test to use it Update README with new command-line usage Bump version to v0.8.0

README.md, after:

# sxbp ![sxbp](sxbp.png "sxbp")

Experimental generation of 2D spiralling lines based on input binary data.

This is the command-line-interface for [libsaxbospiral](https://github.com/saxbophone/libsaxbospiral).

## Licensing

sxbp, like libsaxbospiral is released under version **3.0** of the **GNU Affero General Public License** (AGPLv3).

A full verbatim of this license may be found in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file in this repository. *You should almost certainly read it*. If for some reason you have not received this file, you can view a copy of the license at [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

Note that as well as being under the same copyleft protections as the GPL License, the AGPL enforces these protections further by **including provision of the software via a network service (such as a website) as one of its definitions of distribution**, hence requiring those who integrate sxbp into their website or other network service to also release the software into which they are integrating sxbp under this same license (AGPLv3).

> ### Note:

> I wholeheartedly don't recommend integrating *this* program into your software, that is what libsaxbospiral is for. You can integrate sxbp anyway if you want, but it's generally not a good idea...

## Usage

Once sxbp is installed, run `sxbp -h` for usage information, or look here:

```
Usage: sxbp [-hvpgrD] [-d <int>] [-l <int>] [-t <int>] [-s <int>] [-f FORMAT] [-S STRING] [-i <file>] [-o <file>]
  -h, --help                       show this help and exit
  -v, --version                    show version of program and library, then exit
  -p, --prepare                    prepare a spiral from raw binary data
  -g, --generate                   generate the lengths of a spiral's lines
  -r, --render                     render a spiral to an image
  -D, --disable-perfection         allow unlimited optimisations
  -d, --perfection-threshold=<int> set optimisation threshold
  -l, --line-limit=<int>           plot this many more lines than currently solved
  -t, --total-lines=<int>          total number of lines to plot to
  -s, --save-every=<int>           save to file every this number of lines solved
  -f, --image-format=FORMAT        which image format to render to (pbm/png)
  -S, --string=STRING              use the given STRING as input data for the spiral
  -i, --input=<file>               input file path
  -o, --output=<file>              output file path
```

## Dependencies

You will need:

- A compiler that can compile ISO C99 code
- [Cmake](https://cmake.org/) - v3.0 or newer
- [libsaxbospiral](https://github.com/saxbophone/libsaxbospiral) - v0.20.x
- [Argtable 2](http://argtable.sourceforge.net/) - must use v2, v1 and v3 will not work

> ### Note:

> These commands are for unix-like systems, without an IDE or other build system besides CMake. If building for a different system, or within an IDE or other environment, consult your IDE/System documentation on how to build CMake projects.

## Recommended Build with optimisation

Add this extra argument to CMake to build the program in release mode (with full optimisation)

```sh
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release .
make
```

## Install Program

Use the `make install` target to install the compiled program to your system's standard location for executables.

```
make install
```

Assuming your PATH is configured correctly, sxbp should now be available to you as the command `sxbp`.

> ### Note:

> This may or may not require admin priveleges. Typically does on GNU/Linux, typically doesn't on Mac OSX *with Homebrew installed* and *probably doesn't* on Microsoft Windows.

## Contributions and Transfer of Copyright

I've yet to create a CLA (Contributor License Agreement), but I will likely be doing so soon and definitely when I start getting external contributions.

This will likely involve aggreeing of transfer of copyright ownership of contributed work to me (Joshua Saxby/@saxbophone), so I can be in the best position to defend copyright claims against me and also allow for dual-licensing should someone find this commercially valuable.
